example: [WIP] added rbac examples (#4450)
feast-dev/feast: examples/rbac-remote/README.md

    
## 2. Authorization Setup

### A. Kubernetes Authorization
- **Step 1: Create Remote configuration Files**
    -  Set auth type `kubernetes` in the respective `feature_store` files

         ```yaml
                auth:
                   type: kubernetes
          ``` 
    - Feature store YAML files for each server, can be created for example like below server.

        **Registry Server:**  [feature_store_registry.yaml](server/k8s/feature_store_registry.yaml)
        
        **Offline Server :** [feature_store_offline.yaml](server/k8s/feature_store_offline.yaml)
        
        **Online Server :** [feature_store_online.yaml](server/k8s/feature_store_online.yaml)

- **Step 2: Deploy Server Components**
  - Run the installation script. The setup script will deploy the server components based on user confirmation, type `k8s` for kubernetes authentication deployment. The script will deploy all the components with the namespace name `feast-dev`.

    ```sh
    ./install_feast.sh
    ```

### B. OIDC Authorization

> - **Step 1: Setup the keycloak see the documentation [here](https://www.keycloak.org/getting-started/getting-started-kube)**

Reviewer: I think this is not a reproducible example, if we just link the K8s installation page of Keycloak.
IMO we should provide a ready-to-use setup. Without it, users might be discouraged from trying it out due to the potential complexity and required expertise.

Author: updated the read me to create the realm, client, roles users and mapping the roles.

# Feast Deployment with RBAC

## Demo Summary

> This demo showcases how to enable Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for Feast using Kubernetes or OIDC Authentication type. 

Reviewer 2: nit: can you link to OIDC? I think it's this: https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-works/

The demo steps involve deploying server components (registry, offline, online) and client examples within a Kubernetes environment. 
The goal is to ensure secure access control based on user roles and permissions. For understanding the Feast RBAC framework 
Please read these reference documents.
- [RBAC Architecture](https://docs.feast.dev/v/master/getting-started/architecture/rbac) 
- [RBAC Permission](https://docs.feast.dev/v/master/getting-started/concepts/permission).
- [RBAC Authorization Manager](https://docs.feast.dev/v/master/getting-started/components/authz_manager)

## Tools and Projects
- Kubernetes
- Feast
- PostgreSQL Database

> - Keycloak(if oidc)

Reviewer 2: Please provide link to Keycloak

## Application Environment

This demo contains the following components:

1. Feast Remote Server components (online, offline, registry).
2. Feast Remote Client RBAC example.
3. Yaml Configuration and installation related scripts files.
 
![demo.jpg](demo.jpg)

## Setup Instructions

> The application works under OpenShift or Kubernetes with the following instructions assume that you are using a OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application works with Kubernetes or OpenShift and the instructions assume that you are using a Kubernetes or OpenShift cluster.
```

### Prerequisites

1. Kubernetes Cluster and Kubernetes CLI (kubectl).
2. Helm: Ensure you have Helm installed for deploying the Feast components. 
3. Python environment.
4. Feast CLI latest version.

## 1. Prerequisites Step

 - **Step 1 : Create the Feast project with PostgreSQL.**

    * Install the PostgreSQL on a Kubernetes cluster if you are using OpenShift you can install using [OpenShift Template](https://github.com/RHEcosystemAppEng/feast-workshop-team-share/tree/main/feast_postgres#1-install-postgresql-on-openshift-using-openshift-template)

>     * Port Forward PostgreSQL Database to your local machine. Since we are setting up the Feast project locally using the Feast CLI, so for local connection required port forward PostgreSQL:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Port Forward the PostgreSQL Database to your local machine. Since we are setting up the Feast project locally using the Feast CLI, we need to port forward PostgreSQL:
```

       ``` kubectl port-forward svc/postgresql 5432:5432```

>     *  Create a feature repository/project using cli with PostgreSQL. Please see the instruction for more details [here](https://docs.feast.dev/reference/offline-stores/postgres#getting-started).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *  Create a feature repository/project using the cli with PostgreSQL. Please see the instructions for more details [here](https://docs.feast.dev/reference/offline-stores/postgres#getting-started).
```

>        For this example (local) setup, we create project with name [server](server) using these settings for [feature_store.yaml](server/feature_repo/feature_store.yaml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       For this (local) example setup, we create a project with name server using these settings for  the [feature_store.yaml](server/feature_repo/feature_store.yaml).
```

    
## 2. Authorization Setup

### A. Kubernetes Authorization
- **Step 1: Create Remote configuration Files**

>     -  Set auth type `kubernetes` in the respective `feature_store` files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -  Set the auth type to `kubernetes` in the respective `feature_store` files
```

         ```yaml
                auth:
                   type: kubernetes
          ``` 

>     - Feature store YAML files for each server, can be created for example like below server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - For each server, feature store YAML files can be created for example like below:
```

        **Registry Server:**  [feature_store_registry.yaml](server/k8s/feature_store_registry.yaml)
        
        **Offline Server :** [feature_store_offline.yaml](server/k8s/feature_store_offline.yaml)
        
        **Online Server :** [feature_store_online.yaml](server/k8s/feature_store_online.yaml)

> - **Step 2: Deploy Server Components**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 2: Deploy the Server Components**
```

>   - Run the installation script. The setup script will deploy the server components based on user confirmation, type `k8s` for kubernetes authentication deployment. The script will deploy all the components with the namespace name `feast-dev`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Run the installation script. The setup script will deploy the server components based on the user's confirmation, enter `k8s` for kubernetes authentication deployment. The script will deploy all the components with the namespace `feast-dev`.
```

    ```sh
    ./install_feast.sh
    ```

### B. OIDC Authorization

> - **Step 1: Setup the keycloak** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 1: Setup Keycloak** 
```

>     - See the documentation [here](https://www.keycloak.org/getting-started/getting-started-kube) and install the keycloak.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - See the documentation [here](https://www.keycloak.org/getting-started/getting-started-kube) and install Keycloak.
```

    - Create a new realm with the name `feast-rbac` from admin console.
    - Under the `feast-rbac` realm, create a new client with the name `feast-client`
    - Generate the secret for the `feast-client`.

> - **Step 2: Create Server Feature Store Files**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 2: Create the Server Feature Store Files**
```

>     -  Set auth type `oidc` in the respective `feature_store` files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -  Set the auth type to `oidc` in the respective `feature_store` files
```

         ```yaml
          auth:
            type: oidc
            client_id: _CLIENT_ID__
            auth_discovery_url: _OIDC_SERVER_URL_/realms/feast-rbac/.well-known/openid-configuration
        ``` 

>     - Feature store YAML files for each server, can be created for example like below server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - For each server the feature store YAML files can be created for example like below:
```

      **Registry Server:**  [feature_store_registry.yaml](server/oidc/feature_store_registry.yaml)

      **Offline Server :** [feature_store_offline.yaml](server/oidc/feature_store_offline.yaml)

      **Online Server :** [feature_store_online.yaml](server/oidc/feature_store_online.yaml)

> - **Step 3: Deploy Server Components**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 3: Deploy the Server Components**
```

>   - Run the installation script. Type `oidc` for keycloak authentication deployment. The script will deploy all the components with the namespace name `feast-dev`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Run the installation script. Enter `oidc` for the Keycloak authentication deployment. The script will deploy all of the components with the namespace `feast-dev`.
```

     ```sh
     ./install_feast.sh
     ```

## 3. Client Setup

### A. Kubernetes Authorization

> - **Step 1: Create Client Feature Store YAML**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 1: Create the Client Feature Store YAML**
```

>     - Set up the client feature store with remote connection details for the registry, online, and offline store with auth type `kuberentes` .See the client remote setting example here: [feature_store.yaml](client/k8s/feature_repo/feature_store.yaml) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Set up the client feature store with remote connection details for the registry, online, and offline store with auth type `kuberentes` . See the client remote setting example here: [feature_store.yaml](client/k8s/feature_repo/feature_store.yaml) 
```

> - **Step 2: Deploy Client Examples**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 2: Deploy the Client Examples**
```

>     - As an examples, we created different users: 1. [admin_user](client/k8s/admin_user_resources.yaml), 2. [readonly_user](client/k8s/readonly_user_resources.yaml) and 3. [unauthorized_user](client/k8s/unauthorized_user_resources.yaml) .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - As an example, we created 3 different users: 1. [admin_user](client/k8s/admin_user_resources.yaml), 2. [readonly_user](client/k8s/readonly_user_resources.yaml) and 3. [unauthorized_user](client/k8s/unauthorized_user_resources.yaml) .
```

>     - Each user assinged own service account, roles, for example as shown in below table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Each user is assigned their own service account and roles, as shown in the table below.
```

    | admin           | feast-admin-sa             | feast-admin-role | feast_admin_permission   | FeatureView, OnDemandFeatureView, BatchFeatureView, StreamFeatureView, Entity, FeatureService, DataSource, ValidationReference, SavedDataset, Permission | CREATE, DESCRIBE, UPDATE, DELETE, READ_ONLINE, READY_OFFLINE, WRITE_ONLINE, WRITE_OFFLINE |
    | user            | feast-user-sa              | feast-user-role  | feast_user_permission    | FeatureView, OnDemandFeatureView, BatchFeatureView, StreamFeatureView, Entity, FeatureService, DataSource, ValidationReference, SavedDataset, Permission | READ, READ_OFFLINE, READ_ONLINE                                                           |
    |unauthorized-user| feast-unauthorized-user-sa |                  |
    - To deploy the client confirm `Apply client creation examples` `Y`
    - The Deployment of the overall setup looks like :

    ![Deployment.png](deployment.png)
  
### B. OIDC Authorization

> - **Step 1: Create Client Feature Store YAML**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 1: Create the Client Feature Store YAML**
```

>     - Set up the client feature store with remote connection details for the registry, online, and offline store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Set up the client feature store with the remote connection details for the registry, online, and offline store.
```

    - Set the `Auth type` to `oidc`
    - update the client secret in client side `feature_store.yaml` or if required any other settings as show below. 
     ```
      auth_discovery_url: https://keycloak-feast-dev.apps.com/realms/feast-rbac/.well-known/openid-configuration
      client_id: feast-client
      client_secret: update-this-value
      username: ${FEAST_USERNAME}
      password: ${FEAST_PASSWORD}
     ```
    - See the client remote setting example here: [feature_store.yaml](client/oidc/feature_repo/feature_store.yaml)

> - **Step 2: Create Roles and Users**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 2: Create the Roles and Users**
```

     - Under the `feast-client` create the two roles `feast-admin-role` and `feast-user-role`
     - Under the `feast-rbac` realm, create 3 different users: `admin-user`, `readonly-user`, and `unauthorized-user`. Assign the password `feast` to each user.
     - Map the roles to users: select the `admin-user`, go to `Role mapping`, and assign the `feast-admin-role`. Select the `readonly-user` and assign the `feast-user-role`. For the `unauthorized-user`, do not assign any roles.

> - **Step 3: Deploy Client Examples**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 3: Deploy the Client Examples**
```

>     - For OIDC, similar to the k8s examples, create different deployments and added the username and password into environment variables: 1. [admin_user](client/oidc/admin_user_resources.yaml), 2. [readonly_user](client/oidc/readonly_user_resources.yaml) and 3. [unauthorized_user](client/oidc/unauthorized_user_resources.yaml) .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - For OIDC, similar to the k8s examples, create different deployments and set the username and password as environment variables: 1. [admin_user](client/oidc/admin_user_resources.yaml), 2. [readonly_user](client/oidc/readonly_user_resources.yaml) and 3. [unauthorized_user](client/oidc/unauthorized_user_resources.yaml) .
```

    - To deploy the client confirm `Apply client creation examples` `Y`
 
## 4. Permissions Management

> - **Step 1: Apply Permissions**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 1: Apply the Permissions**
```

>     - See the code example in [permissions_apply.py](server/feature_repo/permissions_apply.py) for applying permissions for both Kubernetes and OIDC setups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - See the code example in [permissions_apply.py](server/feature_repo/permissions_apply.py) for applying the permissions for both Kubernetes and OIDC setup.
```

    - The `install_feast.sh` have option to apply permission from the pod with user confirmation `Do you want to copy files and execute 'feast apply in the pod? (y/n)`.

> - **Step 2: Validate Permissions**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Step 2: Validate the Permissions**
```

>     - use feast cli to validate the permissions as command `feast permissions list` for more details use `feast permissions list -v` also other command like 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - use the Feast cli to validate the permissions with the command `feast permissions list` for more details use `feast permissions list -v`. Additionally, there are other commands such as:
```

      `feast permissions check / describe / list-roles`

> ## 5. Validating permissions/rbac results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 5. Validating the Permissions/RBAC results
```

- **Run the Examples**

>     - As in the [test.py](client/k8s/feature_repo/test.py), the try example attempts to fetch Historical Features, perform Materialize Incremental, fetch Online Features, and push to online/offline storage based on user roles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - As outlined in the [test.py](client/k8s/feature_repo/test.py) script, the example attempts to fetch Historical Features, perform Materialization, fetch Online Features, and push to the online/offline store based on user roles.
```

      - The `admin-user` can perform all actions on all objects.

>       - The `readonly-user` can only read or query on all objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - The `readonly-user` can only read or query all objects.
```

>       - `unauthorized user` should not able to read or write any resources as there no role define for this user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - `unauthorized user` should not able to read or write any resources as no role is defined for this user.
```

   - From each user's pod run the example `python feature_repo/test.py`

## 6. Local Testing and Cleanup
- **Local Testing**
    - For local testing, port forward the services PostgreSQL Service and Feast Servers with the commands below:
      ```
      kubectl port-forward svc/postgresql 5432:5432
      kubectl port-forward svc/feast-offline-server-feast-feature-server 8815:80
      kubectl port-forward svc/feast-registry-server-feast-feature-server 6570:80
      kubectl port-forward svc/feast-feature-server 6566:80 
      ```

>     - For in testing for Kubernetes user can set the environment variable LOCAL_K8S_TOKEN in each example. The token can be obtained from the service account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - When testing in Kubernetes, users can set the environment variable `LOCAL_K8S_TOKEN` in each example. The token can be obtained from the service account.
```
